Okay, so hopefully this one actually works today.
Three Doshas.
I don't know if we went through Vata, so we're going to go through it again.
Okay, so the Vata Doshas, the word like literally means wind.
Oh yeah, we talked about this, it's a primary Dosa.
So I think we're good on that one.
Pitta Dosa.
All right.
Pitta, the word actually means cooking, which is just kind of interesting, or like the power
of digesting.
So basically it's like that which causes things to continue to like ripen and mature.
And yeah, as fire cannot exist directly in the body, Pitta exists in the body in the
medium of oily and acidic secretions, so it is said to contain an aspect of water as well.
Yeah, because you can't just have fire the way your ass would burn.
So it's mixed with this oily and acidic-ness.
It's Pitta itself is like responsible for all forms of digestion and transforming things
in the body.
It even goes down to the cellular level to the GI tract.
Pitta also works on the mental and spiritual levels as well as our capacity to digest impressions,
emotion, and take ideas in order to arrive as a perception of truth.
Pitta gives us these positive traits of intelligence, vitality, and even courage.
And when our Pitta is low, you can definitely notice the lack of decision-making, motivation,
or even getting through to accomplish goals.
The location of Pitta is in the small intestine, and it lives in the stomach among the organs.
You can definitely notice in the sweat glands, in the sebaceous glands, in the blood and
the lymph nodes among the tissues.
It senses the eyes, and its motor organ is the feet, which is related to the element
and tantra, tan-matra, of fire.
When it is high, it accumulates in the small intestine, which builds up as acidity.
Pitta is produced as the positive energy or heat of the blood.
As a disease factor, it manifests through excess of toxic blood that gives rise to inflammation
and infection.
So inflammation and infection in the body, I can go back to an increase in the Pitta
dosha.
Pitta depends upon Vata for its movement, and it depends on Kapha for its support, just
as fire requires both oxygen and fuel in order to burn properly.
It holds some degree of Vata or nervous energy within it, and it grounds itself with appropriate
Kapha or water.
Around the Kapha, that phlegm, that mucus, the stuff that makes things stick together,
and is the power of cohesion, that is Kapha.
It conserves as a container for Pitta and Vata, or essentially like energy and heat,
Kapha itself, as water is held in the medium of earth.
So the skin, the mucus lining, according to its secondary earth element as well.
Kapha is located in the chest, the throat, the head, essentially the upper body, the
sites of mucus production, but it's also in the pancreas, the sides in the stomach and
the middle body where fat accumulates.
It's in the lymphatic tissue and fat tissue generally.
As far as the senses go, it's taste and smell, so think the upper.
The nose and the tongue are its motor organs, and the genital and excretory, which relates
to water and earth elements, in Tanmatras.
Kapha entails us with emotions and feelings.
It governs love, caring, devotion and faith, which serves to help us in harmony internally
and unite us with others.
Kapha also allows us to retain what we have achieved through our efforts.
Kapha's primary physical site is the stomach, where mucus is produced, which then flows
into the lungs in the lymphatic system.
Kapha is produced through the plasma, which is the main Kapha tissue in the body, providing
hydration and nourishment to all the tissues.
As a disease factor manifests through plasma, that becomes mucus.
This causes overweight, edema, lung disease, lung glands and other Kapha disorders.
Kapha depends on Vata for stimulation and movement.
It requires Pitta for its warmth.
The body, primarily composed of water, which is Kapha, is a specific form of water in which
heat, Pitta, and vital energy, Vata, are contained.
Water that is cold or does not move cannot sustain life.
So the constitutional factors.
Doshas essentially create three different primary types of individual contributions,
or mind-body types.
No type is necessarily better or worse than the other.
Each has its benefit, as it also has its weaknesses.
Kapha types possess the strong build, but can lack motivation and adaption to use it
properly.
Vata types have the weakness build, but a greater capacity for change and adaption to
protection.
Pitta types have moderate physical strength, but generally mental and emotional force.
Here is essentially some things I kind of want to talk about to determine the Doshas.
Neon nature, no person, is one type only.
All experts.
So, not all experts, but you should expect some type of combination of all of these traits.
The predominant trait will determine the type.
Sometimes there's two dominant traits and sometimes there's three.
Tridoshic.
Okay, so when it comes to height, Pittas are either one or the other.
They're either tall or they're really short.
Or Vatas, sorry, Vatas are either tall or really short.
Pittas are just that medium type person.
And then Kapha, they're usually short, but sometimes they can be tall and like really
large and essentially just wide.
When it comes to frame, Vatas, they're really thin and bony.
Have good muscles though.
Pittas, they're moderate, they're developed, they're just right in the middle.
And then for Kaphas, they are large like we had talked about and really just well formed.
Weight on the Vata end, they are on the lower end of weight and they have a hard time holding
it.
Pittas, as it shows, they're just medium, they're kind of moderate.
And gain weight can lose weight pretty easily.
And for Kaphas, they are just heavy.
And when it comes to weight loss, it is hard for them to lose it.
So the skin, essentially the luster of it.
For Vatas, they're dull and dusky.
For Pittas, they're ready and lustrous.
And then for Kaphas, they have this pale or this whiteness to them.
When it comes to the texture of the skin, Vatas are dry, they're rough, it's like a
thin.
For Pittas, they're warm and oily.
And then Kaphas are cold, damp, and thick.
Eyes, Vatas are small and they're nervous, they're always moving.
Pittas, they're very easily inflamed and they have a piercing look to them.
And Kaphas, they're just big, large, and they've got this whiteness to them.
When it comes to hair, Vatas are dry and thin.
Pittas, they continue with this thin hair, but it's oily.
And then the Kaphas, they have that luxurious, wavy, thick, oily hair.
Teeth, Vatas are crooked and they just kind of all over the place, poorly formed.
For Pittas, they have moderate teeth, but their gums bleed easily.
And then when it comes to Kapha teeth, they're just well formed, large teeth.
Nails, Vatas are brittle and they're rough.
Soft and pink live in the Pitta area, and then soft and white live in the Kapha area.
Okay, joints.
Pittas are stiff and cracky, Pittas are loose and Kaphas are large and very just firm.
When it comes to blood circulation, Vatas are variable, but a lot of times it's poor.
Pittas just have a good one and then Kaphas are in the moderate area.
Appetite, Vatas, they're very nervous and their appetites vary.
Kaphas have a high appetite and sometimes can be excessive.
And Kaphas have a moderate exercise, but it's really just kind of moderate appetite, but
it's really just constant.
When it comes to thirst, Vatas are scanty and they have a low thirst.
Pittas have a high thirst and Kaphas have a moderate thirst.
Sweating, Vatas again are scanty.
Pittas are perfused, but not enduring.
And then for Kaphas, it's low to star, but then it becomes perfused.
When it comes to elimination or stools, Kaphas or Vatas, excuse me, they're hard or dry or
all over the place really.
Pittas are loose and soft and Kaphas have normal.
When it comes to elimination of urine, Vatas are scanty.
Pittas, you'll notice it's perfused and yellow and then for Kaphas it's moderate and clear.
Sensitivities of Vatas are sensitive to dryness, wind and cold.
Pittas are sensitive to heat, sunlight and fire.
And Kaphas are sensitive to cold and damp.
Immune functions, Vatas have a low variable immune.
Pittas are sensitive to heat, but it's moderate and immune system of a Kapha is very high.
Disease tendency, Vatas have a tendency for pain and inflammation.
Pittas for edema and fever and then Kaphas for congestion.
Disease types, Vata is nervous.
Disease types for Pitta, blood and liver.
And then again for Kapha we've got the longsome mucus.
When it comes to activity, Vatas you'll notice high activity and they're really restless.
Pittas are moderate and then Kaphas move slowly and have a low activity level.
Endurance, Vatas are poor and they're really easily exhausted.
Pittas moderate but focused and endurance for Kaphas high.
Sleep, Vata is poor, disturbed. Pittas variable and Kaphas they sleep a lot, excess.
Dreams, Vatas they're very frequent dreams and they're colorful.
For a Pitta it's moderate and romantic.
And for Kaphas infrequent, dreaming and disturbed.
Memory, for Vatas they're quick but they're absent minded.
Pittas sharp and clear and for Kaphas it's slow and steady.
Speech for a Vata is frequent and fast.
Pittas sharp and cutting.
And then for the Kaphas they're slow and melodous.
Temperant, Vatas they're nervous people and they're very changeable.
Pittas temperant is very motivated.
And then for Kaphas they're very conservative, content human beings.
Positive emotions for a Vata are adaptability.
Positive for Pitta is courage and the emotions for positive for Kapha are love.
The negative emotions, Vata, fear, Pitta is anger and Kaphas attachment.
For Vata when it comes to faith, they're erratic and variable.
For Pitta strong and determined faith and for Kapha steady and slow to change.
You add all those bad boys up in each category and you'll notice this perfect combination
of colors that live in what we call your Doshas.
And then there is a Prakriti and a Vikriti.
Prakriti is what we're born with.
Vikriti is essentially what outside elements have done to each of those elements in our
body to change our constitution.
The goal is to get back to Prakriti and balance.
Peace.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
