Okay, today we're going to talk a little bit about, I'm going to say this beautiful word called Amma, and it's loving relationship with this word Agni, both beautiful. Okay, so what the heck is Alma A, M, a, basically, it's the gathering of toxins in your body. So, yeah, whenever you have food or waste material that is undigested, it essentially starts to accumulate in the body, different areas, different textures, and when it starts to build you simply, essentially complicates what you're trying to do when you're treating the different elements in the body and getting back to state so in general, Alma possesses, possesses this heaviness. It's really heavy, it's cold, it's slimy. It's like, slimy. I said that it's dense. It kind of has this, like, kapha type of texture to it, very, really curious on if there's Alma in the body when you wake up in the morning before you, like, brush your teeth, drink water or anything like that, scrape your tongue if you don't have a tongue scraper, that's okay. Grab a spoon from back to front a few times, and what comes off that is Alma. Yeah, enjoy that. While this Amma has this consistency of like kapha, it really aligns with all the doshas. So how does it align with all the doshas? When a dosha is aligned with an Amma, they're called Sama, S, A, M, a, so sama is with and essentially, when you combine it with Amma, it's s, a m, a sama. So that's what in Sanskrit, if you care to learn a little Sanskrit in a different language. So this Amma, this stickiness, this consistency, it accumulates in different areas. And while it mainly has this coffee feel to it definitely has different areas where it can accumulate. So if it has more of a like vata consistency to it really the it shows up as like gas in the large intestine. And then once it's done in the large intestine, it starts to move, because vata likes to move, and really it spreads into the small intestine. And when it spreads into the small intestine from there, it really just blocks any power of digestion. Power of digestion, how you digest things, is controlled by this beautiful word called Agni. And the way that I can describe Agni is a fire, right? How you go through something and how you process something. Think about how a fire would do that. Too big of fire, not too good, too small a fire, not great, either. Balanced is kind of perfect. So essentially, Agni gives the rise to Amma. So vata, yeah, accumulates there and it shows up as gas and constipation. Now kapha, Amma can also accumulate, and that starts in the stomach as like this mucus consistency, and then it spreads into the small intestine that too blocks Agni or the fire, and from there, that creates Amma, Pita accumulates as bile in the small intestine, bile and mucus are definitely different. Bile is acidic. It's spicy, right? Which it's hot in that too, too much heat, can block Agni, as it is very like oily and liquidy, which essentially then gives rise to Amma. These are respectively called samma vata Sama, kapha, samma Pitta. Now, while Amma and Agni are essentially opposite in properties, they balance each other out. You kind of need a perfect balance. So AMA, it's really cold, it's wet, it's heavy, it's cloudy, it's really impure. Where Agni is hot, it's dry, it's light, it's clear, has this aroma to it, it's pure. And to treat Amma, you essentially have to bring in balance, which it's necessary then to increase the Agni. Now, psychologically, Amma can also appear in the brain. So it's not just in the, I'm going to say, physical body, but psychologically negative emotions are something that increase the rise of Amma, yeah, when you think about a negative emotion, think of it as, I don't know, they're dark, they're damp, they're heavy, they're sticky, right? So mentally, you also have this fire in your brain, your mind, this psychological part of yourself, and negative emotions essentially drown that out and raise. Raise Thea Ma, negative emotions quench mental Agni, or essentially clarity of the mind. And as a result, this physical Agni is also reduced. So anything that you're mentally going through, well, check in the body, because the body holds the score has undigested experience and become toxic, very much like undigested food. Yeah. So symptoms of Amma include loss of taste or appetite, indigestion, that tongue coating that we talked about, halitosis, bad breath, weakness, heaviness, tiredness, lethargy, are essentially obstructions of channels and vessels. Others are going to include like accumulation of waste material, body odor, which is in essentially pee or even feces, deep, heavy or dull pulse, lack of attention, lack of clarity, depression, irritability and obstructions of other doshas. Well, that little bad boy, she's the root cause of colds, fevers, flus, as well as chronic disease and a weak immune system. This is everything from like allergies that you have to the crackiness arthritis even goes down deep into cancer. So that starts with Amma. Yeah, wherever Amma shows up, treatment first aim in its elimination. So in order to get down to the colds, the fevers, really the chronic thing is going away, you got to get deep in to that beautiful stickiness of Alma that lives in the body and get rid of it. It's not possible to treat two doshas simply in the directly when they are mixed with Alma for example. Tonification rejuvenation therapies are only possible once the body is cleared of Amma. So think about your dishwasher and food on the plate. If there was just a pile of food sitting on a plate, if you didn't rinse it off, you're never really going to get the plate clean when stick it in the dishwasher, especially the larger amount, the stickier, the thicker, the longer it's been there. So yeah, you got to get that shit out of your body. Amma. There's a lot of different ways that you can get Amma, out if you want to start working with one approach, herbs, herbs that are like bitter or pungent in taste, those are really good for it. Essentially, the bitter taste is composed of air and ether, which helps separate Amma. And if you have Amma that has a quality of like heaviness from the tissues and organs and it's lodged, so bitterness will definitely help with that. I'm Yeah, then there's like a pungent taste. I talked about bitter, pungent taste. A pungent taste composes of like fire, but it also has air in it. And when you're adding fire and air to Amma, it burns, essentially it up. It has the same property as Agni, right? Fire and air. Think of a fire, and through strengthening the Agni, it essentially digests Amma. Usually, bitter taste is used first to halt the development of Agni, and then we can get to the pungent then pungent taste is used to revive the metabolism, to to essentially consume the AMA and prevent it from redeveloping. Bitter taste by itself can't necessarily be used along completely to destroy Alma or properly restore the agony you me. All right, let's talk about how Alma is increased by the substances so sweet, salty, sour in taste sweet, taste like Alma, it's cold, it's heavy, it's wet, salty is also very heavy and wet, and then salty and sour taste on their on the other end are like hot, right? In their damp properties, they essentially aggravate the fever and toxins of the heat that usually accompanies Amma, the astringent taste is mixed in its actions of Amma, its effects upon the tissues and discharge may serve to hold Alma in the body, yet it can be used to help with healing a membranes damaged by the infections of Alma. So really, it must be used as a supplement to bitter and pungent therapies. As the main attribute of Alma is heavy. It's treated primarily by herbs and a diet or consuming of foods that are really just light in nature, often, a fast is a good idea until the tongue clears or the appetite returns. Um is a primary factor in disease. Is behind the value and extension using a fasting, mucus free diets, detoxifying therapies for many different diseases, because the property doshas are mixed with those of AMA. Herbs may be relief of dosha may not be effective in the same conditions. Conversely, herbs which normally aggravated dosha may relieve it from the samma conditions. We must determine not only the dosha, but where it is with or without Amma. So vata, which is normally light and dry, it becomes heavy and damp when mixed with Amma. Pitta, which is hot and damp, becomes cooler and wet. Kapha becomes heavier, while normally slow in motion, may become stuck or even immobile by AMA, the turbulence, no the stickiness and the density of Amma essentially changes the attributes of the dosha. So vata Sama, we wrap this all up. Constipation, foul breath, feces that has a aroma to it. There's this tongue coating, abdominal pain that is bloated, intense gas, cramping, a little appetite, weakness, your pulse slows down, and, oh, aggravated by cloudy weather. So that's interesting treatment for this, that pungent taste herbs, like we talked about, it stimulates and along with some lactatives or pungents or purge a tips to clear the toxins I'm it all right. Pitasama also has a lack of appetite, but it also is very little like thirst. There is Alma that also shows up on the tongue, but this is going to be like a yellow coating here, and feces and mucus are also yellowy or even green, there's just like heaviness in the stomach. There's this lick, thick virus, vomiting, halitosis, bad breath, or even like a bitter, sour taste in your mouth, burning rashes and this conditions may be aggravated by cold. Treatments for this mainly bitter, pungent taste, again, bitter tonics and stimulates to clear the toxins that coughasalma indicates it's mucusy, it's cloudy, it's sticky, it's thick, does not come out easily. It's like a phlegm in the throat, the coating on the tongue that are really white threads of saliva, like forming that soury, salty taste in the mouth, tightness, congestion, can't breathe, mucus in the stools of the urine, appetite being really low, heaviness, dull, aching, just overall pain and fatigue. Mainly the treatment for this is again pungent herbs for stimulating and decongestant actions to clear toxins and cut fat and mucus. So the usual approach for Ayurveda is to change the summer conditions of the dosha to a near ama condition after the ALMA is cleared, the dosha can be worked on directly removing the excess and the tonification of deficiencies. There's that injury I'm.
