Okay, so this is the very last question of the one client and I'm gonna use my very first
client, Matthew, I don't know your middle name, Lee, I think I know your middle name
but I don't know what it is.
So this gentleman one is a freaking weirdo just like myself and weird isn't even the
word to describe it because it's actually not weird at all.
It's actually very in balance, very in tune.
The only reason why some people would say it's weird is because we are just on a completely
different level.
We talked about this the other day.
We're actually not that weird.
We're pretty damn close to being a client.
Anyways, Matt came to me with arthritis issues and with anything disease always starts in
the gut.
So Matt and I just really kind of started working on getting his ovni increased.
I remember one of the first conversations we had was about his hunger in the morning
and definitely was not hungry in the morning at all.
And that's very much one of the first signs that your metabolism/ogny is low.
We should all have this kind of like burning, not all but the majority should have this
burning little fire in your stomach saying like "feed me" because when we sleep ideally
the body is really pretty empty and when there is emptiness in the system the body is able
to clear out.
A great analogy that was told to me at some particular point, I hope I don't butcher this,
your body is very much when you're sleeping it wants to work like a janitor just like
a janitor would at school.
He has a janitor throughout the day, he can come in and clean but there's kids, there's
things, there's activity happening and it really just kind of knocks out when the janitor
is getting done.
But if you were to clear out and leave your system really pretty empty the janitor can
do the deep cleaning that he needs to do and that is really the time for that to happen.
The hours between 10 and 2 we call this double bonus sleep because that day your ogny is
highest which is the way you digest things and even though you are sleeping your body
is in like double over mode so I feel like one of the great things that we worked on
with him was adjusting his food intake to being I think potentially hopefully the biggest
at lunch time and then at dinner time making that smaller but really allowing that food
that you're digesting to be used as energy before you lay down to let the body digest
and we've had conversations recently around how he is in the morning with eating and he
like that's something I should be able to talk about a little bit more.
Not only did we work on like the food piece of it obviously because there's that sleeping
thing, I really haven't asked again much this is bad on a bad life practitioner or follow
up but yeah I'd be interested to know how the sleep goes so there's that piece of it.
As far as one of the very first we'll call it symptoms that he had the arthritis piece
of it Matt has made from my understanding made a lot of improvement on how severe it
is both pain wise and then how often so the flare ups from my understanding have definitely
started to decrease in both of those areas which I love to hear.
It was really interesting with this particular case because I was thinking it was like a
pitchy thing but at the end of the day it's bata which bata is a lot of air and a lot
of space and that is an ailment that ailment was dominant in the symptoms that he was showing
which was a long time ago.
The other thing that we had discovered is how long he had been there and where it came
from.
I remember talking just a little bit about like his childhood and how certain events
potentially played stake into it so yeah there's that piece of it.
Dab it a little bit in the herbs but I know he's very much a sensitive human being that
feels a lot and he has embraced all of the learnings that I have had with him so that
would be bad.
I'm going to break up on that one.
I should go back on my notes and talk about it but I'm proud of Matthew.
He's starting to come back to his true color.
Good work Matt.
Thank you.
