Okay, we're going to dive into just some basics for each of the doshas.

---

Dosha movement language:
- Vata: slow, steady, grounding, warming, supportive, focused on long holds and rest.
- Pitta: calm, cool, steady, flexible, relaxed, less intense, more ease than effort.
- Kapha: energizing, warming, light, quick, dynamic, movement that lifts and mobilizes.

---

We are going to start with vata.
So for a vata, here's my message for them when it comes to movement they should be doing.
Because they are very much like little bunnies, like hopping all over the place all the time.
They need to focus on being more like a turtle.
Slow, steady, calm.
Just a little bit more settled because naturally that is not their state.
For a vata, qualities that they naturally have are like cold, very light, rapid movement,
dry and they are always just like changing and moving.
So when you think of the opposite of those, think of things that are warming, that are
opposite of light which is just like weight lifting, weight bearing.
Humid is going to be like a really good one.
And then like I mentioned, slow and steady.
Not a practice in a way that reduces vata.
A vata person should choose slow, steady classes over a power yoga.
Long, long holds as opposed to like vinyasa is really great.
Restorative yoga is also like super appropriate.
For specific poses like forward folds where you can go inwards and twists, this reduces
vata not only in the body but also in the mind.
When they are practicing you need to focus your attention on bringing the muscles in
towards the bones.
That really just kind of helps support and ground people.
The other thing though, when holding them because of vata is...
You don't want to hold the poses for too long because you don't want to exhaust them and
burn them out because they are already just like going all the time.
When you are practicing, yes work on the slow inhale but more importantly for vata is focus
on the exhale and going all the way down to the bottom of the bottom of the bottom of
the breath.
And as you are doing that, breathe into the pelvic floor like the lower back of the abdomen,
those like first and second chakras.
And then as always, end exercise with a nice long shavasana or corpse pose or in western
world, just rest.
I talked about simple postures or like standing inner seated and twists, even just with like
a forward fold and those are really good.
Jnana Shavasana which is essentially sitting on the floor, your right leg out straight,
your left knee bent so the sole of your left foot is on the inner right thigh.
Then you kind of twist over to the right just a little bit and you reach for the outer edge
of the right side of the foot as you forward fold into it.
Cobra or locust which is essentially laying on the floor on your belly, palms next to
your rib cage, tops of the feet on the ground, toenails pushing down and then using the upper
back to lift the chest as the top of the feet continue to root down.
Child's pose is really good and for vata which they are going to hate me for this, a nice
20 minute shavasana is really ideal.
For the pitta, my little perfect human beings that are trying to just accomplish a lot and
get everything perfect, think mentally calm, not perfection.
Qualities of a pitta, well naturally they are hot, they are also very light like a vata
but they have some oiliness and some intensity and sharpness and again they are very mobile
like always kind of like moving because pitta is very much the transformation phase.
So for those that need to balance out their pitta, exercising in cool or like tempered
weather is really ideal and then just like this calm yet like steady way is really going
to be best.
Because pittas are really just like strong by nature, they need to focus more on the
flexibility than the strength while there is balance in both.
When you are trying to reduce your pitta flexibility is going to be where you want to focus and
then exercise in a way that feels fun and repetitive and relaxed because pittas can
be quite intense.
There is really nothing more that imbalances pitta more than overly intense or a competitive
workout which they love to do so yeah good luck with that.
Emphasize mental calm over perfection of the craft like we talked about.
Try less, feel more, cultivate a sense of repetitive and effortlessness even as you
exercise.
Notice if you are in a self-critical or competitive state of mind.
Use calming siddhi vinyasa classes, overheated power, bhikram yoga.
So hot power, no bueno.
Moderately long holds and restorative classes are also very appropriate.
Forward folds again, looking inwards, twist, back bends on the belly, types of yoga poses
that reduce pitta in the body and the mind.
Chikunasana, probably top three pose.
Shoulder stands, those are all really good.
So for katas, kafas, my naturally slow little sloth.
Yeah, enthusiasm, that's the goal with exercise is really to boost it.
Really you are like cool as well but you are very heavy, you're slow and you're moist and
you're damp and don't mean this in negative the way but dull and really just kind of like
stagnant so what you want to do to balance this out is find things that are warming but
yet light, dry, quick and mobile.
Ways to practice to reduce it, quicker energizing and mildly heating.
Exercises kafas can work up the biggest sweat of all these doshas.
Kafatais are usually strong by nature so again they need to focus more on flexibility but
they also need to add in that agility and that intensity to kind of get the body moving.
Choose those forms that are more rapid and moving.
Those are also really good for kafas as they build intensity and circulation of the blood
and like the lymph nodes but don't go too much.
Back bends, those are poses that stretch your side body and twists are great for kafas so
I'm going to twist for everybody, let's say that.
Great sequences or poses are like sun salutations of sirinamaskara A, B or C.
Utthanasana, garabhadrasana, automukasvanasana, those are essentially all in those sirinamaskaras.
So when it comes to yoga poses and using them for good, that's that.
Thank you.
