[Footsteps]
Okay, um, so today we're going to talk a little bit about some stuff from my bio.
I'm going to put in there that I've been practicing Arvada for, I think it says a decade or something,
that which can be true, but in my mind is a little bit of a stretch of the truth.
So, um, yeah.
Uh, because the topic is obviously Arvada, I definitely want to talk about how yoga and Arvada
are two really closely related sciences, and they're basically just like, not only sisters,
but kind of, Arvada might be the sister science of yoga, maybe, I don't know, we'll figure that out.
But I was introduced to yoga, um, well I started practicing in 2017, um, off-wim,
as I was really working out pretty hard at the time, and went on this random kind of three mile run
with a friend on a Sunday, and woke up the next day, my body, my hips were just torn to shreds.
I know that sometimes, um, when you're super sore like that, just staying stagnant almost makes it worse.
So my friend, as I was walking into the gym, was like, "Just come to yoga." I'm like, "I don't do yoga."
It's too slow, it's just not my thing, blah, blah, blah. Well, I ended up in there, and my life was essentially transformed.
Went to yoga teacher training two years later, 2019, and within that is where I was introduced to Arvada.
And I have to say that I don't know if I've been like, if I started practicing it right away,
but I was definitely intrigued by it, and that was one of the weekends.
I think it was a day session, maybe a weekend session at Arvada, but I knew that there was something very special about it.
And that was the first time I really started to, um, understand my body in a way of balance as opposed to extreme.
So yeah, they're very closely related, spiritually and sacred sciences, rooted in Vedic tradition of India.
Arvada is essentially the science of healing, both of the body and the mind, and yoga is essentially a self-reflection, reflection, realization.
And as we all know, the best way to get inside is it depends on a well-oiled, well-functioning body and mind.
Both of them were, and always have been used together, so not one before the other.
Most books on yoga in the Western speak very little of Arvada, and although Arvada books speak of yoga,
there have really been no big, big combination between the two.
And so, yeah, my friend gave me a book. It's called Yoga and Arvada, Self-Healing and Realization. Thank you, Matthew.
Oh, that's funny. I'm going to kind of go over that today.
So if I need to reference this in the book, definitely can't.
Um, so as we both know, well, maybe, maybe not know, yoga and Arvada are really much more than a physical exercise,
or like a healing system that we tend to view them as, as a society we like to categorize and bucket things.
And while that is part of it, it is just the tiniest, tiniest little piece.
Both classical yoga and Arvada look at the whole human being, which is not only body, but mind and soul.
Both address all of our needs, both being yoga and Arvada, from physical health and well-being
to the unfoldment of our highest consciousness. Therefore, there is this broader view
that we like to call integral yoga and integral Arvada.
Traditionally, that's called pancha-kasha and pancha-kasha yoga, pancha-kasha Arvada,
meaning yoga and Arvada of the five sheaths, which reference to the physical body, the prana, the breath,
the prana's breath, mind, intelligence and soul as the higher self.
It can also be defined as yoga and Arvada of the three bodies, physical, astral and casual, or body, mind and soul.
So while, yes, it is a physical thing, but yoga and Arvada really address the entire nature
and all the systems of our greater life as a spiritual, cosmic being, which is just so cool.
It examines the broader scope of Arvada, which not only includes physical health, but mental health.
Which, learning really the mind is, it was so freaking powerful.
Yeah.
Okay, so there's that.
Yoga and Arvada, I-U, A-Y-U, means life.
Life is the combination, which is the Sama yoga, Sama, same, same, right, of body, senses and mind,
and reincarnating the soul.
Arvada is the most sacred science of life, beneficial to humans, both in the world and the world beyond.
This was from the Chakra, Samahiti Sutrasana 1.42-34.
So essentially, yoga is one of the most extraordinary spiritual sciences that mankind has ever discovered.
It is like a gem of great proportion, containing many faucets,
whose light can illuminate the whole of our lives with great meaning.
Going back over thousands of years, it has been one of the few spiritual traditions
that has maintained an unbroken development throughout history.
Think about that.
Comprehending all aspects of the human beings and the world of nature,
it can unfold all the higher powers that are accessible to us, both internally and externally.
So when you think about science, it's always right until proven wrong,
which is really kind of cool, but the approach of Arvada goes back thousands of years,
and it never really had like a stamp on anything, other than balance, right?
And because of that broad approach and saying nothing is for everybody and everything is for somebody,
yeah, it's never been proven quote unquote wrong, which is just kind of cool.
And people just continue to go back to it.
That's just fascinating when you think about it.
Yoga methods cover the entire field of our existence, from the physical, sensory, emotional, mental, and spiritual,
to the highest self-realization. It includes all methods of higher involvement in humanity.
There's physical postures, the asanas, the ethical disciplines,
breath control, sensory methods, affirmations and visualizations,
prayer and mantra, and complex meditative disciplines.
Yoga understands that nature and interrelationships of the physical, subtle, and formless universes
into the boundless infinite beyond time and space, and shows us how all of these exist within the main individual.
Yoga is the fruit of the teaching of the Himalayan sages, going back to what yoga is regarded to as the beginning
of a particular world age or cycle of civilization some 10,000 years ago.
It's said to carry on the traditions of earlier spiritually advanced teachings which present civilization has forgotten.
Yoga is a distillation of wisdom from the mirative stages throughout the ages.
The ongoing legacy of spiritual urge of human humanity has adapted to the practical requirements of each age and each person.
It is like a wide and luxurious banyan tree spreading out our higher potentials and giving them strength and nourishment.
Like yoga, with which it has grown, Ayurveda possesses a long history of many layers,
many diversity, and continuous development that makes it relevant for all people at all times.
Ayurveda was one of the most remarkable holistic medical systems in the world.
It covers all aspects of health and well-being, physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual.
It includes all methods of healing from diet, herbs, exercise, and lifestyle regiments to yoga practices and meditations.
With its unique understanding of individual constitutions, Ayurveda provides the insight for each person and each culture
to create a way of life in harmony both with the world of nature and our higher selves.
It offers optimal health and development for all creatures by its profound understanding of natural law.
So right there, that is really the basic of the app.
We need a physical section, we need an emotional section, a mental, and a spiritual.
Yeah, that's the four. And underneath that, it includes all methods of healing from diet to herbs, exercise, and lifestyle regiments.
So under the four, physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual, we need a diet, we need an emotional,
or we need a diet, an herbal, and exercise, and a lifestyle. That's the foundation.
Those four, and each of the four has the four underneath it. And then essentially we can build off of that.
So we'll use physical as an example. What do we physically eat?
Well, we know that we can go back to the doshas and do things like food combining, the time of day, all that stuff.
When it comes to the diet emotional, that really is going to come down to how you are feeling when you are eating it.
Is it something that you love, something you enjoy, so on and so forth.
Physical herbs, sometimes foods can't necessarily provide what we need.
So we reach to herbs to be able to help provide that with it.
Exercise, physical, sometimes we need to rest and sit into postures and poses.
Other times we need to sweat and move.
And then essentially lifestyle regiments when it comes to physical.
Example, going to bed before 10, putting the phone down an hour or two before, and waking up before 6.
That's like a physical. And then you can get into emotional, mental, spiritual.
So yeah, there's that.
Foundation, got you there, thanks.
