Okay, what are we all getting wrong?
Um, I can't necessarily say that when it comes to like the Ayurveda piece of it, I see a
lot of wrong, but I don't necessarily think I've done my homework in that.
I will say this though, the Western culture...
Fuck, we're getting it just...
We're just getting it wrong.
Let's be real.
Alright.
Dinner, in our society, dinner is definitely one of those times that everybody, if they
have an opportunity to actually sit down and do, they make that their biggest meal.
On the flip side, or not the flip side, but what happens is like food is medicine, it's
also fuel, and at the end of the day, your body is like actually preparing to just freaking
chip up down.
And so when we stimulate it, or we throw a lot of foods or activities or things at our
body, we're asking our body to just digest things at a rapid pace, and it's naturally
just not gonna do that.
It just wants to wind down.
So yeah, society, we're getting it wrong.
The water thing I hit on the last one, I didn't even realize that this was the next question,
but yeah, like I said about the water thing, just sip a bitch.
I like that.
There's that.
Here's another one that we're all just kind of like getting wrong.
Is this whole thing of like, carbs are bad?
No.
Carbs are like freaking beautiful medicine in the right way of taking it all in, the
right quantity.
That's just so perfect.
What else are we getting wrong?
Oh man, this one could go on forever.
Slow this thing down.
Like food is something that you should actually like sit down and cherish when you're taking
it in.
So sit the fuck down, ideally, honestly, like on the floor, cross your legs, and take your
time.
Like just, they always say you should drink your food and you should eat your liquids.
Yeah, let that one digest for just a second, but that's definitely one that we are, that
we're getting wrong.
Oh, the other real thing that I feel like we're getting wrong is just like not allowing
the time to like step away and do it.
We are what we digest, it's not what we eat.
And if we don't actually take the time to like, not like physically, but mentally and
emotionally digest what is coming our way, it's just gonna form what we call mama in
our body and this is like toxic sludge.
So if you're not mentally there to like take it, like the world is giving you physically,
mentally, and emotionally, just pause for a second, get yourself in that head space
and do it.
God, something just came into my brain earlier about what we're getting wrong, can I?
Now I don't remember.
Now I don't remember what it is, but that's okay.
We'll just keep going.
Freaking touching yourself, there we go.
Touching yourself is not a bad thing.
Touching each other is not a bad thing.
Human touch is like super magic, okay?
Like fucking touch yourself all the time.
In the morning, wake up, grab some hot water and freaking like just touch yourself.
Yeah, it doesn't have to be a sexual thing, it can be if that's what you need, but touch
yourself, give your nervous system the validation and security that it needs that you're not
going to want to get rid of it.
It's really kind of pretty magical when you lead into something and you show it that you're
there to support it and give it love and your body is craving it.
So just freaking like touch yourself, yeah.
What else are we getting wrong?
Oh, fuck the snacking.
Alright, let's pause with the snack for just a second here.
It takes three to five-ish hours for your body to just digest what you're putting in
it and when we continue to just like digest it a little bit, throw more food on it, digest
it a little bit, throw more food on it, your body never gets to like actually relax and
rebuild.
So enough with the like constant eating type of situation, there is a time and a place
for it because nothing is for everybody and everything is for somebody, but for the most
part just ditch the freaking snacks.
Let's just say that.
What else are we getting wrong?
Lunch.
Salads.
Have salads for the most part.
We're all taught to like eat salads to lose weight.
No.
Warm, nourishing vegetables are key, yes, but warm food is definitely something that
is going to be digested in your body much easier than this hard piece of like iceberg
lettuce.
No, thank you.
If you're going to have a salad, which it's nice and refreshing, when in the summertime,
right, again, opposite spring balance, but make sure you pause for just a second and
you add some warmness to it if it's meat, if it be some vegetables that are warmed up,
if it even be like some rice, go for it.
I don't think we're getting it wrong.
This whole fat thing, that is like the gods, right?
Fat is there to just give your body lubrication and juiciness and all the freaking love that
it needs and it's actually that transverse fat, I believe, that it might be making that
one up, so don't really quote me on that one, but yeah, fat.
Lean into it.
Enjoy it.
Yeah, so on so forth.
Other things that we're doing wrong.
All right, fruit, you guys.
Fruit, if you're not going to eat it by itself, then just freaking just skip it altogether.
There's definitely this thing in Ayurveda that's like a food combination and you have to have
spices and you have to have pork and you have to ... It's like chemistry, right?
There's a little bit of science that goes into it, but fruit is there to be consumed
by itself and if you can't do it, then just skip the fruit.
That's plain and simple.
I'll pause right there.
I won't let that one go.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
